A case in this video we're going to look at the primary and foreign key concepts within databases.
So let's have a look at a primary case.
Primary Key is a column or a set of columns which uniquely identifies a record within the table.
So each new entry of data within a table is going to have to have a unique identifier for that right.
And this is what we call a primary key primary key must be unique.
It cannot be No.
So it must have a value and a table can only have one primary key.
So as I say it can be made from multiple columns but there can only be one primary key per table.
When we create our tables we're going to learn how we can define our primary case.
So as an example let's have a look at the smoke table.
So it's mock customer table.
It's got an ID column first name last name gender and telephone column and we can see here that the
ID column is the primary key and we can see that because it's unique for each row in the table you can
see it goes 1 2 3 4 5 etc. for each new right.
And you can see we couldn't use first or last name as a primary key as we have repeating values in both
columns.
So we have three Johns.
We have a last name of Simmons that turns up twice.
And similarly we can use gender as a primary key or even telephone number.
So now let's take a look at a foreign case.
So foreign key is used to link two tables together and the foreign key is a column whose values match
the values of another table's primary key column and the table with the primary key is called the reference
or parent table and the table with the foreign key is called the child table.
And unlike primary keys a table can have multiple foreign keys within it.
So let's take a look at a foreign key example.
Here we have an Orders table and we can see we have a customer id call them and our product ID Card
them and they are foreign keys in the Orders table which reference other columns in other tables.
So the customer id call them is referencing the ID column in the Customer table and the Product ID called
them is referencing the ID column in the products table.
So these are two foreign keys and one orders table.
So this is what we mean when we talk about primary and foreign keys and we're going to be creating priming
foreign keys when we create our coffee store database.
So let's move on to that now.